New Twig Manual (Partial) (#1082)
contao/docs: docs/manual/layout/templates/twig/data.en.md

---
title: 'Display template data'
description: 'Display all template data.'
aliases:
    - /en/layout/templates/twig/template-data/
weight: 60
---

The available template context varies depending on the template source. Within Twig templates you can display all available 

> or specific template data.

Reviewer: I think we should avoid the term "context" without explaining it.

```suggestion
To see what data is a available in a template (we call it the "context"), you can use the `dump()` function. If you only want to know more about a specific part of the context, you can pass it as an argument:
```

Author: Done

```twig
{{ dump() }}
{{ dump(varA) }}
{{ dump(varA, varB) }}
```

{{% notice warning %}}

> This only works while the [debug mode](/en/system/debug-mode/) is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the dumped data can contain security critical information about your system, it is only possible while the [debug mode](/en/system/debug-mode/) is enabled.
```

Author: Done

{{% /notice %}}

## Command Line

> On the command line, you can use the command `vendor/bin/contao-console list debug` to find two useful commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the command line, you can use the command `vendor/bin/contao-console debug:contao-twig` to find out which templates are available and used in the system. By passing a template name prefix as argument you can filter for certain groups: e.g. `vendor/bin/contao-console debug:contao-twig content_element/h` will show the `headline` as well as `html` content element templates (and others…). 
```

Author: Done

{{% notice note %}}
The options may differ between Contao versions. Therefore, for each command you can get details about the available options by 
specifying `--help`. For example, you can find out that the `--tree` option in `debug:contao-twig`, is only supported in Contao 
version 5.0.2 and later.

> {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer: The options did not change, but a new one was added. IMHO more helpful would be to point out the new feature, wdyt?
```suggestion
{{% notice info %}}
Since Contao 5.0.2 there is also a `--tree` option that displays the templates in tree form following the directory structure. This is especially helpful when dealing with variant templates that reside in sub directories, like `content_element/text/special.html.twig` or `content_element/text/info.html.twig`. Filtering for `content_element/text` then neatly groups the `special` and `info` variant under the default `text` template.
{{% /notice %}}
```

Author: Done

### debug:twig

The command shows you, among other things, a list of available Twig functions and filters.

```bash
php vendor/bin/contao-console debug:twig --help
```

### debug:contao-twig

The command shows you details and more information about the hierarchy of your templates.

```bash
php vendor/bin/contao-console debug:contao-twig --help
```

{{% notice tip %}}
Both commands support the `--env` option to take the environment into account : `prod` (default setting) or `dev`.

> {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer: I'd honestly omit all of this.

Author: Done - partly

---
title: 'Display template data'
description: 'Display all template data.'
aliases:
    - /en/layout/templates/twig/template-data/
weight: 60
---

To see what data is a available in a template (we call it the "context"), you can use the `dump()` function. If you only want to 
know more about a specific part of the context, you can pass it as an argument:

```twig

> {% extends "@Contao/content_element/text.html.twig" %}
> 
> {% block content %}
> 
>   {% set varA = 'My first <br> Text' %}
>   {% set varB = ['My second Text', 'My third Text'] %}
> 
>   {{ dump(varA, varB) }}
> 	
>   <ul>
>     {% for item in varB %}
>       <li>{{ item }}</li>
> 			
>       {{ dump(loop) }}
>     {% endfor %}
>   </ul>
> 
>   {% set myDebugBlock %}{{ text|raw }}{% endset %}
> 
>   {{ dump(myDebugBlock) }}
> 
>   {{ dump() }}
> 
> {% endblock %}

Reviewer: Isn't this way too complicated for this section? People want to understand how the `dump()` function works but we throw all sorts of unrelated things at them (blocks, set, extending a template, …).

IMHO the previous example had it all:
```suggestion
{{ dump() }}
{{ dump(varA) }}
{{ dump(varA, varB) }}
```

```

{{% notice info %}}
Because the dumped data can contain security critical information about your system, it is only possible while the 
[debug mode](/en/system/debug-mode/) is enabled.
{{% /notice %}}

## Command Line

> On the command line, you can use the command `vendor/bin/contao-console list debug` to find two useful commands:

Reviewer: I'd remove the info about the list command:
```suggestion
Use the following commands on the command line to find out more about the current Twig setup:
```
